Add Teradata support for Recon (#2456)
databrickslabs/remorph: docs/lakebridge/docs/reconcile/configuration.mdx

        report_type: data
        ```
    </TabItem>
    <TabItem value="teradata" label="Teradata">
        ```yaml title="recon_config_teradata_teradata_sandbox_all.json"
        source:
            dialect: teradata
            catalog: DBC
            schema: lakebridge_test
            uc_connection_name: teradata_sandbox
        target:
            catalog: migrated
            schema: migrated
        report_type: all
        ```

>         :::warning Required: install a SHA-256 UDF on the Teradata source

Reviewer: can we include the expected function definition so users can just run that

Reviewer: I wonder how federated catalogs do that

Author: > can we include the expected function definition so users can just run that

Included the expected signature of the default function. As mentioned in the documentation, users can always configure and use other names if needed.

        Teradata ships no portable cryptographic hash that produces a hex string in pure SQL. The
        Teradata source-side hash therefore defaults to a **user-installed** UDF named
        `lakebridge_sha256_hex(VARCHAR) RETURNS VARCHAR(64)` that produces the lowercase SHA-256
        hex digest — matching `SHA2(<concat>, 256)` on the Databricks side.

        Install this UDF in the source database before running any `row`, `data`, or `all` report
        (the `schema` report type does not need it). To point at a different UDF, override

>         per-table via [`hash_expression`](#hash-expression).

Reviewer: as noted, this should not be per table. but part of overall recon config

        report_type: data
        ```
    </TabItem>
    <TabItem value="teradata" label="Teradata">
        ```yaml title="recon_config_teradata_teradata_sandbox_all.json"
        source:
            dialect: teradata
            catalog: DBC
            schema: lakebridge_test
            uc_connection_name: teradata_sandbox
        target:
            catalog: migrated
            schema: migrated
        report_type: all
        ```

>         :::warning Required: install a SHA-256 UDF on the Teradata source
>         Teradata does not provide a native cryptographic hash that yields a hex string in pure
>         SQL. The Teradata source-side hash therefore defaults to a **user-installed** UDF named
>         `lakebridge_sha256_hex(VARCHAR) RETURNS VARCHAR(64)` that produces the lowercase SHA-256
>         hex digest, matching `SHA2(<concat>, 256)` on the Databricks side. You are responsible
>         for building, installing, and registering this UDF.
> 
>         Skeleton of the expected signature (the `RETURN` body is a placeholder; substitute your
>         actual SHA-256 hex implementation):
> 
>         ```sql
>         REPLACE FUNCTION <source_database>.lakebridge_sha256_hex(
>             input_text VARCHAR(32000) CHARACTER SET UNICODE
>         )
>         RETURNS VARCHAR(64)
>         LANGUAGE SQL
>         CONTAINS SQL
>         DETERMINISTIC
>         RETURN '<replace with sha256 hex of input_text>';
>         ```
> 
>         Refer to the Teradata documentation for how to create and register UDFs on your release
>         and platform.
> 
>         Install this UDF in the source database before running any `row`, `data`, or `all` report
>         (the `schema` report type does not need it). To point at a UDF installed under a different
>         name or schema, set `hash_expression` on the `source:` / `target:` connection block; see
>         [Hash Expression](#hash-expression).
>         :::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         :::warning Required: install a hash UDF on the Teradata source                                                                                                                                                 
  Teradata ships no portable cryptographic hash UDF, so the source side of row-hash report
  types (`row`, `data`, `all`) needs a user-installed UDF that returns a hex digest. Two                                                                                                                         
  practical options, in order of effort:                                                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
  **Option A — MD5 (easiest, recommended).** Teradata distributes an MD5 UDF you can install                                                                                                                     
  in minutes: <https://downloads.teradata.com/download/extensibility/md5-message-digest-udf>.                                                                                                                    
  The Databricks target has `md5()` built in, so both sides match without further work.                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
  Configure with `hash_expression` on both sides of `recon_config`:                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
  ```yaml                                                                                                                                                                                                        
  source:                                                
    dialect: teradata
    catalog: DBC                                                                                                                                                                                                 
    schema: lakebridge_test
    teradata:                                                                                                                                                                                                    
      source_hash_expression: "<udf_db>.hash_md5({})"   # whatever name you installed Teradata's MD5 UDF as
       target_hash_expression: "md5({})" 
  target:                                                                                                                                                                                                        
    catalog: migrated
    schema: migrated                                                                                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                                                                  
   
  Option B — SHA-256 (if your security policy mandates it). Teradata ships no SHA-256 UDF                                                                                                                        
  out of the box; you'll need to build and register one yourself (typically an XSP or a wrapper
  around an external library). The Databricks default uses sha2({}, 256). Once your UDF is                                                                                                                       
  installed under any name, point Lakebridge at it:                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
  source:                                                                                                                                                                                                        
    dialect: teradata                                    
    catalog: DBC                                                                                                                                                                                                 
    schema: lakebridge_test
    teradata:                                                                                                                                                                                                    
      source_hash_expression:  "<udf_db>.lakebridge_sha256_hex({})"
       target_hash_expression: "sha2({}, 256)"  
  target:
    catalog: migrated                                                                                                                                                                                            
    schema: migrated                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
  Whichever you pick, the same hash must be used on both sides — the comparison query joins
  on the hashed value. Lakebridge wraps both sides with LOWER(...) automatically, so case                                                                                                                        
  alone won't cause mismatches; the bytes the hash produces must match.                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
  :::                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
  :::note Collision sensitivity                          
  MD5 has known cryptographic weaknesses, but those don't apply to row-key matching in a
  reconcile workflow — a collision would cause a false-equality, not a security failure, and                                                                                                                     
  the probability is astronomically small for typical row sizes. If your compliance bar still                                                                                                                    
  demands SHA-256, use Option B.                                                                                                                                                                                 
  :::  
```

            column_thresholds: list[ColumnThresholds] | None = None
            filters: Filters | None = None
            table_thresholds: list[TableThresholds] | None = None

>             hash_expression: HashExpression | None = None

Reviewer: we can use transformations for this behind a special identifier

Reviewer: thinking more about this. this should not be configured per table. it is more of a global source and target connection configuration

Author: Moved to src/target config.
